Let's just stay with the text for a minute, then I'm broadening out to the context, because I think your answering to this question is one of the most important things you'll get
Seminar.
If,
God is saying, if,
God through Peter is saying
I guard you
If
And through,
your
Autonomous
Production of faith.
If you without my causing it,
Produce it,
I show up and guard you.
For your inheritance.
I don't think there's much left to guard.
Because I've already done the decisive work, right?
I mean,
What's what is going to threaten what's going to keep me from having the inheritance?
on belief.
Right?
What will keep me from having the inheritance is if I'm
throw it all away I don't believe you anymore don't love you don't trust you it's all been a sham anyway I'm gone I'm out of here I don't have faith anymore don't
Noah don't want faith anymore. Never did have faith. It was all just to show if that happens, I'm in hell. Yeah.
And?
So if I can keep that from happening,
Then,
Faith unites me to Jesus, and.
Faith overcomes the world, and faith is the means by which my sins are forgiven, and faith opens the door of heaven, and
What's left for God to do?
in guarding me for my inheritance i don't think there's anything left for him to do decisively
Which means I don't think that's what this means. I don't think that's what this text means. I don't think this text means who, by God's power,
are
Protected after they autonomously produced the necessary faith.
Because there's nothing left to do. The faith is the issue. Will I have faith as I die?
And then God says, yeah, if you have it, I'll be there to guard you. Well, from what?
The faith is it.
Now,
That's my
That's my take just reading the verse itself.
That this means
God
Guards his children by preserving and sustaining their faith.
Himself.
He keeps you.
By keeping your faith.
I like to ask people, I'll ask you,
What makes you think you will wake up tomorrow morning as a believer?
And your answer to that question shows what kind of theology you have and how you live your life.
If you say,
Well,
I'll wake up tomorrow morning believing because...
That's what I do.
I will to believe.
I bring about faith every morning.
I put my trust afresh.
I'd say, well, that's a pretty flimsy foundation for waking up a believer.
I'll tell you what, I think I'll wake up a believer tomorrow
Because he who began a good work in me will bring it to completion at the day of Christ. That's my only hope.
My only hope is that he keeps his own by awakening their faith.
Is that what?
What Peter means.
Here's a sequence of thought.
To broaden it out in the new testament
And see if this fits where you're
Mind is.
In chapter five,
Verse 8.
You're all familiar with
Thank you.
Take heed,
Your adversary, the devil,
Prowls around like a roaring lion,
Seeking someone to devour.
Resist him!
Firm in your faith.
And after you've suffered a little while,
The God of all grace, whom self-restore establishes strength in you.
So what does the the lion eat?
What's the devour you?
That probably doesn't mean
Your muscles.
Flash bone.
It's,
Your faith.
Now confirmation so the the devil right now is in this room
He hates what's going on here.
And he wants to just...
Eat your faith.
And he has all kinds of ways of sowing thoughts in your mind that cause you to see anything faith building, I might say, as.
Ridiculous.
So he wants to eat your faith. If he can eat your faith and consume it and destroy it, he doesn't care what else you do.
Do you remember Luke?
Twenty
Two thirty two.
Luke, twenty two, thirty two.
Jesus looks at
Peter.
And he says,
Satan,
Has demanded to have you.
that he might
Sift you like wheat.
Now what is that picture?
So you got a sifter here
Great.
And you got Peter.
And the sifter and satan wants to sift you peter like wheat so
he's got a.
He pushes you through the sifter.
What? what does he want to stay in the sifter?
Or what do you call it, a sieve or whatever the right word is.
uh and and what comes out the bottom?
And my answer is, he just wants to push Peter through and out comes Peter and uphears faith.
I want faith out of your life. Satan has merited to have you. I think that's what he did with Job as well. Satan comes to God and says,
Ah, let me just take him to to. let me just wipe out his kids. and then he won't believe anymore.
That didn't work. Let me...
attack his body and he said well just don't kill him so he diseases him and that didn't work he kept trying to sift him and get faith out of his life with suffering which
which is what the context is in first Peter 5:8.
And here's what Jesus said.
He says, I have prayed for you.
That your faith may not fail.
And after you have turned,
Strengthen your brothers.
Not if you turn.
No.
Jesus looking right into Peter's face and saying, Ok,
We're going to do a job kind of thing here.
Job wanted to sift
i mean satan wanted to sift job.
And I'm going to...
I'm going to let him have you tonight.
Up to a point.
And no farther.
Because I have prayed for you.
that your faith fail not. So my question is, did his faith fail?
He denied him three times.
He denied Jesus three times. I don't know him. I don't know him. I don't know
And Jesus said, I'm praying that your faith won't fail after you have turned, strengthened your brothers, and he made Peter a rock for the church. So he writes letters like this.
It's like this, about suffering and satanic attack and faith and God's preservation of it.
I don't think his faith failed.
Utterly.
Isn't it wonderful? I mean, that's just wonderful. There is such a thing as us failing. You will fail today, probably, in some particular way that faith would cause you to act in a way
in a bold way and you don't do it, faith fails. But you haven't failed utterly.
Jesus is praying for you!
Romans 8:
He is interceding to you at the right hand of God.
Then what is he asking God to do?
He's asking him to do verse 5.
By God's power you are being guarded through the God sustained Jesus sustained spirit sustained faith
Faith.
For a salvation ready to be revealed. So that's my take on verse five.
So,
The point of verses 3 through 5
is hope. Hope. Hope is so
Strong and so fixed and so firm and so trustworthy and is so valuable, unfading, undefiled.
Well.
Imperishable.
infinitely better than anything in this world because you're an inheritor of God being born into his family and he's he's keeping it there for
Therefore, you will let it go away. And if you worry about whether you're going to get there because of the suffering and the fiery ordeal that's about to come upon you, don't worry. I'm
I'm going to guard your faith.
Wow.
That's so encouraging to me. so why am I going to wake up at Krsna my morning?
He's going to guard me with the instrument of faith. he's going to.
Open my eyes to see the trustworthiness of the gospel and believe.
And if he left me to myself,
I would not be a believer.
In this,
You rejoice.
We'll go another 15 minutes or so.
And then take a break.
In this you rejoice,
Amen.
Do we not? So what's the role of the Holy Spirit?
Right now, if you're feeling so.
Some measure of happiness.
about
Your inheritance,
and your safety in Jesus,
The holy spirit's at work in your life right now
In this room.
If you're not, if you're bored with this
He passed you over.
And you should be scared.
Scared enough to.
To ask him not to pass you by.
I pray like that all the time.
Pass me by. don't.
Don't leave me to myself as I read my Bible.
Come Holy Spirit help me to do this right here.
It says it's It's going to happen. What if it doesn't happen?
Then you cry out to the Lord.
I o u s.
My little acronym.
I owe you.
S..
I incline my heart to your testimony.
"Oh, open my eyes, then I may behold wonderful things out of your law."
You unite my heart to fear your name.
S, satisfy me in the morning.
Those are three, four prayers from the Psalms.
Which show me the psalmist deals with what I deal with.
So right now I'm praying,
Incline my heart to these words as I teach them and incline your hearts.
Open our eyes to see the wonder of verses three through five.
unite our hearts unite meaning they're they're they're fragmented they're going in a hundred directions right now you're thinking about this afternoon or tomorrow something hard is coming in your life and you're it's hard for you to concentrate
You concentrate right now and you think, oh God, unite my heart and then satisfy me. Satisfy me.
In the morning at 9:56,
with your steadfast love that you've just revealed here. That's the way I pray.
I hope you do.
In this you rejoice,
Though
Now
For a little while,
If necessary,,
You have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it's tested by fire, may be found to result in.
Result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe him.
Leave in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your people.
Souls,
So this is a description of the response of the born-again soul to the news of the inheritance and the keeping.
And the response is,
Joy, and it's a joy in hope. This right here.
is hope. It's the inheritance.
We're not rejoicing,
Mainly,, according to verses three through five, in something that we're going to experience this afternoon,
Or between now and when we die.
a lot of people think oh if you if you become heavenly minded if you set your hope fully on the things that are coming to you you'll become of no worthly earthly
Good. Good.
Peter believes exactly the opposite.
The only way you will respond to suffering in a Christ-exalting, other-helping way,
Is if your hope is outside this world.
That's that's the argument of this book.
if you don't have an inheritance in heaven beyond the resurrection that thrills you now in suffering you won't make Jesus look good in suffering and you won't
You won't cause other people to glorify God on the day of visitation. Verse 12, chapter 13.
You won't.
You'll be so angry that your present inheritance was taken away.
Oh, how sad.
You know,
Maybe this is of the Lord.
If if your mom or dad has just passed away or is in hospice right now,
And you and your brothers and sisters
are at each other's throat, but who gets the piano?
And.
Who gets the house and how's this going to be divvied up?
Can I just say that you magnified Jesus and not fight over that?
If you lose everything,
Don't fight.
That's that's what's going on in first Peter. that kind of freedom.
I'm going to inherit all the pianos in the world.
And...
And I will be able to play them.
I think
That's going beyond scripture. The first one's not.
the first one is not i get all the pianos
Weather will all be able to play.
I hope so, because.
That's one of the regrets I have when I was seven, that I gave it up.